[Music]
our skeletons are made up of lots of
different bones that protect our organs
and help us to move
we're born with about 270 of them and
nearly all of our bones are connected to
other ones
this number slowly decreases to about
206 by the time we've grown up
the exact amount of them can vary a
little about one in every 200 people is
born with an extra rib for instance
by the time we reach adulthood our bones
have stopped getting longer
although their density and strength
still changes throughout our lives
but every one of your bones can be
broken including the smallest one in
your ears
even the hyoid a v-shaped bone at the
base of the tongue which isn't connected
to anything else can be damaged
still people manage to fracture it very
rarely it makes up for only
0.002 percent of all cases
but for most of your bones injuries
happen more often
and there are thousands of ways you
could damage them in fact
it's possible to break several bones
even while playing video games
the world record is three bones broken
when playing a simulation video game
the over excited player twisted their
arms the wrong way
and ouch they went snap getting even a
small fracture is not a fun experience
still it rarely disrupts your life all
that much but
imagine you ended up with a lot of
broken bones all at once
like the ones in all four of your arms
and legs for example
sounds unlikely well it could happen in
a number of ways
you might end up in a serious car
accident you could tumble badly down a
mountain slope while snowboarding
or just imagine you were one of the
people building the egyptian pyramids
and you ended up experiencing first hand
just how heavy those massive blocks were
so there you are immobile having broken
all your limbs riding your snowboard
first of all let's count the exact
number of bones you could break here
an arm contains three bones one in the
upper arm
and two forearm bones there are 27 bones
in your hand
and each of your legs contains 30 bones
overall
so if you were to damage every single
bone in all of your limbs at the same
time
you'd have about 120 broken bones that's
more than half of
all the bones in your entire body the
collarbone is the one that people break
most often
but surprisingly this time yours is fine
that's odd because it doesn't take that
much effort to harm it especially if
you've been rolling down a mountain slow
besides this one here are some of the
most common bones that people break
the humerus ulna and radius which are
your arm bones
and also the tibia and fibula which are
you guessed it
two of your leg bones so if you break
both arms
and legs it'll surely be these top five
bones that need treatment
the bad news is that your leg contains
the most painful bone to break
the femur bone it's located in your
thigh
when damaged it causes the most pain
probably because it's one of the
strongest bones
too the femur is actually the longest
and strongest bone you've got in your
body
so breaking both of them at once would
be no fun at all
another problem is that if you broke all
your limbs you'd also damage
the worst bone elbows are the worst ones
to fracture because they're really
difficult to heal
there's not enough tissue to pin the
bones in place and by the time the
elbow's
almost ready to be moved again it's
already started to stiffen
so what exactly happens when you break a
bone
ow yeah that too but first you might
hear a cracking sound
you'll probably still be able to move
your limbs but hey
not too fast just because you can move
it doesn't mean it's not
broken deformity swelling and pain are
also the tell-tale signs that
something's definitely wrong it'll
probably be pretty painful but
luckily there are other things that hurt
a whole lot more
um luckily how much it hurts also
depends on how badly you've broken your
bones
the fracture might be an incomplete one
complete where the bones separate into
two parts
or even segmented where there are three
or more pieces
in some cases people don't experience
almost any pain when they break their
bones
plenty of people have suffered serious
injury while skiing
but some of them not only stand up
afterwards as if nothing has happened
but even continue having fun all day
long
they might notice that they've broken a
bone only a few hours later
this kind of thing often happens with
kids their bones are softer
and it takes them less time to heal
children's bones have a thicker
fibrous membrane that helps their bones
to recover
now here's the good news the pain won't
go on forever
and you're not likely to suffer all that
much normally the doctors will put a
cast on your fracture
sometimes a broken bone doesn't actually
need a cast but then there's the risk
it won't heal right once the cast is on
your fracture the recovery is
almost pain-free although it's usually
accompanied by a lot of itching and
smelling
the cast can start to smell pretty bad
and the more you try to wash the odor
away
the stronger it gets keeping it dry is
essential
so you'll probably have to cover it up
somehow but a flimsy diy
cover is not the best option a tight
cast
makes it harder for blood to circulate
and if it's too tight
it can even cut off the circulation
completely
tingling is a sign there's way too much
pressure inside the cast
having all that plaster on doesn't mean
you'll be too hot
in fact it can actually be the other way
around
uncovered toes for instance are likely
to get cold
so you're going to need warm socks with
both your arms and legs broken and
wrapped in those casts
you won't be able to do much for
yourself so you're going to need a
devoted assistant
taking a shower without any support when
you've got four casts on
doesn't seem possible going to the
bathroom without someone's help is not
an option either
even getting yourself a snack just like
normal is a
challenge you're not likely to win
everyday activities like
paying the bills getting dressed and
even petting your dog
are going to be off the agenda for a
while scrolling through social media
could also be tricky if things are
really serious
fractures can require an operation to
install
some steel elements such as rods plates
screws and pins
these will essentially become your new
body parts with all those metal implants
in your limbs
going through airport security might
become more difficult
you'll be able to walk again but you're
going to be setting off a lot of alarms
from now on
some people claim that a bone becomes
stronger when you get a fracture
in fact it does get a little bit
stronger but
only while it's healing this is thanks
to something called a callus that
protects the bone during recovery
the growth of a callus is a sign that
your immune system is coming to the
rescue
it delivers blood that clots at the
place where the fracture is
this gradually becomes harder and after
a while
turns into new bone material thanks to
the callus your bones will eventually
get back to normal again after a few
months
but in some cases it could take as long
as a year
for this whole healing process to be
completed